Azure Storage is Microsoft's cloud storage solution for modern data storage scenarios. Azure Storage offers a massively scalable object store for data objects. It provides a file system service for the cloud, a messaging store for reliable messaging, and a NoSQL store.

Azure Storage is a service that you can use to store files, messages, tables, and other types of information. You use Azure Storage for applications like file shares. Developers use Azure Storage for working data. Working data includes websites, mobile apps, and desktop applications. Azure Storage is also used by IaaS virtual machines, and PaaS cloud services

Things to know about Azure Storage

Virtual machine data:
Virtual machine data storage includes disks and files. Disks are persistent block storage for Azure IaaS virtual machines. Files are fully managed file shares in the cloud.	
Storage for virtual machine data is provided through Azure managed disks. Data disks are used by virtual machines to store data like database files, website static content, or custom application code. The number of data disks you can add depends on the virtual machine size. Each data disk has a maximum capacity of 32,767 GB

Unstructured data:
Unstructured data is the least organized. It can be a mix of information that's stored together, but the data doesn't have a clear relationship. The format of unstructured data is referred to as non-relational.	
Unstructured data can be stored by using Azure Blob Storage and Azure Data Lake Storage. Blob Storage is a highly scalable, REST-based cloud object store. Azure Data Lake Storage is the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) as a service

Structured data:
Structured data is stored in a relational format that has a shared schema. Structured data is often contained in a database table with rows, columns, and keys. Tables are an autoscaling NoSQL store.	
Structured data can be stored by using Azure Table Storage, Azure Cosmos DB, and Azure SQL Database. Azure Cosmos DB is a globally distributed database service. Azure SQL Database is a fully managed database-as-a-service built on SQL

Storage account tiers:
Standard storage accounts are backed by magnetic hard disk drives (HDD),lowest cost per GB,require bulk storage or where data is infrequently accessed
Premium storage accounts are backed by solid-state drives (SSD) and offer consistent low-latency performance. You can use Premium tier storage for Azure virtual machine disks with I/O-intensive applications like databases

Note
You can't convert a Standard tier storage account to a Premium tier storage account or vice versa. You must create a new storage account with the desired type and copy data, if applicable, to a new storage account

Things to consider when using Azure Storage


